I'm building an SEO strategy for this
founder from absolute scratch. So, if
you run a B2B service, tech, or SAS
company, you can follow along. You can
work out exactly what to do to drive
pipeline results, real revenue from both
Google organic search and AI search.
What works today, what doesn't. Follow
along, start driving pipeline for SEO.
Let's dive into it.
Awesome. Thank you, Sam. So, quick
context about me. I run a B2B YouTube
agency. We do YouTube content. And yeah,
a bit more context. I currently have
zero SEO content, zero presence online
on Google other than my website. So what
should be like step one or step zero?
What should I do at the very beginning?
It's a great question. So I think
completely disregard SEO for a minute.
Everything decent when it comes to
marketing, B2B marketing starts by who's
the dream client, who do we want to
speak to, who is a profitable customer
for you that you actually enjoy working
with that drives good revenue, that's
less likely to churn. So I suppose a
good starting point for me to kind of
context and craft out a strategy would
be to learn kind of what does a good
customer look like, what niche are they
within, what industry are they within,
what are they struggling with, so I can
kind of give you some context and then
give the audience kind of some
actionable takeaway. Awesome. Yeah, that
sounds good. So to give you context on
that and answer those questions, our
main target market is B2B companies,
more specifically SAS companies or B2B
service companies. So like mainly
agencies and we like to work with
companies that are not just starting out
but they already have some form of
marketing that's already working so we
can just plug in our YouTube service and
just really make it rain for our
clients. So that's generally either
called outbound that they already found
and actually made it work or they do
some sort of content marketing maybe on
LinkedIn maybe they have a podcast or
maybe they run paid ads. Usually we
found that those clients who already you
know made this work and already have a
proven like marketing system can just
really go on YouTube and and get results
from it. So yeah, with that in mind,
with this, would it be like enough
context or like enough information about
what we want to do then our ICPS so then
we can, you know, go further and and get
through the next steps.
>> I think that's enough for now.
>> Real quick, if you want to start fueling
your sales team with a steady stream of
leads, demos or booked calls from SEO
and organic search across AI and Google,
why not grab a call with myself over at
breaking.com?
we can chat through exactly how SEO
could potentially help your business
drive a steady stream of inbound through
organic search. Head over to
breakingb.com or hit the link in
description below. Right, back to the
video. As I say in many of my episodes,
the crux of it is we've got a bit of
research. We've got a bit of an insight.
So, what I'd say now is let's basically
map out every way that Samu's dream
clients, his ICP, his dream clients,
what could they search when they need a
YouTube agency or any variant of that
when they're searching for it on Google
organic, chat, GBT, LLM, Google AI
overviews, whatever method they're
looking when they need the service.
Let's completely exhaust that so we can
drive sales calls for his agency as
quick as humanly possible. So, what I'd
normally say at this stage is let's
craft out a money keyword matrix
platform. And how that would look like
is what's every way that one of Samu's
potential clients could search for a
solution. So they might call it a
YouTube agency. They might call it a
YouTube marketing agency, YouTube
service agency. What's another way that
a potential client might refer to your
offer at a broad level? Yeah. So usually
it's YouTube content agency, YouTube
video content, YouTube marketing,
YouTube lead generation, YouTube
organic. These are like I would say the
the main ways. That's how they refer to
me. So you reckon we should do some sort
of keyword matrix where all these are
like listed out and we get very clear on
this.
>> Exactly. So in this money keyword matrix
column one would be what's every way
someone could refer to the offer. So
YouTube agency, YouTube marketing
agency, YouTube services, YouTube lead
generation, all that kind of stuff will
be column one. Column 2 is the niches
Sammy serves best, which sounds like
SAS, B2B, tech, what we call money
niches that he's already selling well
into, have the problem he solves, are
motivated to buy into it, and have
historically paid well, have a low churn
rate. So we know that that that works
well already. Column three, not so
relevant. This works super well for SAS,
but I don't know the YouTube service
industry that well. Normally I say, what
are your main competitors? Like perhaps
you can reel off one or two, but yeah,
in our industry there's not really like
big big names yet, names that would have
like enough of a search volume. So yeah,
I think the best way for us will be like
just really mapping that out as you
mentioned like how they refer to our our
solution and yeah, then go from there
and maybe focus on those.
>> Yeah, I'd agree cuz we want to target
folks that are kind of hungry in market
actually know they need the offer. But
the only final thing I'd say is when we
move upfunnel, I guess for folks that
are perhaps not ready to buy yet, but
maybe early in the stage, maybe I need
YouTube marketing or I need to kind of
take a YouTube first approach to drive
awareness, pipeline, booked calls, etc.,
but I don't know I need it. Is there
certain symptoms or certain struggles
that I might have? Yeah, definitely.
What we've seen with our clients is
because I mentioned that they already do
some form of marketing. Like many times
clients come to us wanting to first of
all fix their low close rate, uneducated
leads, coming on the sales calls, not
knowing exactly what they do or not
trusting them enough yet to buy. So
really about like just how warm the
leads are, how nurtured they are. That's
usually the problem that they come to us
with cuz that's something that we like
long form YouTube content fixes. So
maybe something around like leads not
being warm enough, not being nurtured
enough, low close rates, high ad cost,
high client acquisition cost. All of
those stuff I think can be like these
beginning problems that these people
have. So, so maybe those. So, we've got
it. We've got all the intel we need for
our money keyword matrix. So, we know
the the way that folks can refer to
Sami's offer. We know the industry
serves well. Competitors not so
relevant. But the fourth problem, we
know what struggles folks might have in
house or maybe they don't realize they
need help with YouTube, but they've got
the kind of symptoms that Samu and his
agency can solve. So, you can take the
kind of framework and you can basically
apply this to any SAS tech or B2B
service industry. You just do the same
process and just understand your own
issues and symptoms and industries you
serve well. So the next step is kind of
we want to put these dishes together to
make longtail money keywords basically
that Samu stream clients are going to
search for when they're in market for
his solution either on Google organic or
now chat GPT. So the best way to do this
is to go as niche and as specific as
possible. So what I'd normally say is
link the option from column one which
might be YouTube marketing agency with
the industry he serves well which might
be SAS. And what works super well right
now and has done for a long time is when
you put best in front of it. So it could
be best SAS YouTube marketing agency or
best SAS YouTube agency or best YouTube
agency for SAS, best YouTube video
marketing agency for SAS. Basically,
every way you can exhaust the different
way that a target prospect might search
for that solution within the industry
that he resolves best. He could go best
YouTube marketing agency. That would
probably be a lot more competitive,
likely have a lot more traffic, a lot
more search volume, but it's less
specific to the market he actually wants
to drive his book calls for. So let's
start with a hungry niche. And the also
good thing about kind of making a
longtail keyword is that it's less
competition. So if you search for this
keyword on HFS or Seamrush, there might
be lower traffic, but the keyword
difficulty would be a lot lower and that
means we can rank for those pages a lot
quicker. So what I'd do is and what you
can do if you're perhaps a larger team
and you're not a founder like Samurai,
maybe you get with your marketing folks
or you get with your sales folks or you
get your customer support folks that
help you kind of educate you on what
needs to go into each column like offer,
industry, competitors, jobs to be done,
etc. And then we can start making these
kind of longtail searches that our dream
clients are hunting for. So we've mapped
these out. Let's pretend we're going for
example best YouTube marketing agency
for SAS. All we need to do now in
Google's case is search that on Google,
see what content Google favors. And
usually for these type of searches, it's
article listicical like we reviewed the
top SAS YouTube agencies of 2026. So
straight away I've looked at Sam's site.
I know you've got like one or three page
site. Quite a small site, isn't it? At
the moment,
>> more like a landing page even. So like a
one longer site. So yeah, not sure
what's the best sort of um best practice
there.
>> Cool. So we know he's not done much SEO
to date. He's got quite a thin content
site, not many pages, which is very
common in B2B and SAS and tech. When
folks are kind of early stage in their
company, why would they have a big
website? They've not got a need. What if
they've not done SEO before? If they've
kind of grown forever means outbound
sales or word of mouth or partnerships,
why would they? So let's exhaust these
money keywords for those 5% of our dream
clients are in market for our solution
and let's work out what's every type of
money content that we can match that
money longtail keyword. So in his case
that might be these best X agency listic
calls completely exhaust those review
what's ranking top of Google now try and
make our article kind of more helpful
more useful position our solution within
this list of call is number one but then
Sammy could leverage all these insights
he gets as a founder as to why dream
clients are choosing him how he stands
out in the marketplace he's got a bunch
of client review testimonial videos that
he could weave in there he can label his
pricing he can talk about his pros he
can talk about where he's a good fit
where he's a poor fit and then he can
give a comparison of the other agencies
in the space or likewise if it was a
landing page maybe that ranked well for
maybe best x for industry or offer for
industry type of page. He could again
review what's ranking well try and make
his page kind of more useful, more
helpful. Like you're probably facing
this problem. It's probably having this
impact on your business like you're
investing loads into ads or you're
spending loads of time on LinkedIn but
if you had these videos kind of on
YouTube, you get organic evergreen
value, you get inbound calls, it would
boost your credibility on sales calls,
etc., etc. Label the FAQs on the landing
page and follow those practices. So
that's kind of money cured matrix
building best-in-class content. I don't
know if you've got any questions there,
but then we can kind of finish up.
>> Yeah, mate. Thank you. Super helpful.
Yeah, I guess in terms of questions like
what do you see in terms of timeline
ROI? What should I expect? Like what
should be my goal as someone who as I
said like hasn't done any SEO any you
know Google organic work previously.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sure thing. So I think
one thing to mention here like to
preface is we're not going after like
loads of traffic. A lot of these
keywords, these pages that we're
building out will probably have lower
traffic. Like YouTube for SAS or YouTube
marketing agency for SAS is probably
quite low. And likewise, B2P YouTube
agency again is probably quite low in
terms of monthly traffic, but folks
aren't searching that for fun. They're
searching it because they generally need
the service or the agency. Whereas, if I
was searching something topfunnel, more
informationational based like how to get
started on YouTube or how to craft a B2B
YouTube video, then I'm not in buying
mode. That might drive loads of traffic
to my website, but it's very unlikely
that someone would book a sales call.
So, we want to focus on that lower
search volume, start with the low
keyword difficulty, build a
best-in-class page, and then go from
there. In terms of rankings, usually at
a high level, if it's low keyword
difficulty, like for example, 0 to 10,
it can rank pretty quick. I within 90
days of publishing for a site like
yours, the only thing to bear in mind is
that you have low authority. You
probably haven't earned much in the way
of backlinks. But the good thing about
the work you've done is you've built a
lot of partnerships with other SAS B2B
service agencies. You've done interviews
with folks like myself. So, you could
reach out to folks like myself that are
doing business and sending business your
way. And you could ask for back links
back to these money keywords and pages
from our content, from our websites,
from our articles. And that would be a
quick way to boost those more
competitive pages that maybe more
generic terms like B2B YouTube agency or
YouTube marketing agency that might take
a lot longer to rank compared to best
YouTube agency for SAS. And we could
slowly chip away at those whilst we're
going for the more niche and specific
stuff to drive book calls.
>> That makes a ton of sense. And yeah, I
think that's pretty clear on what I have
to do. It seems like the the strategy is
very laid out. So yeah, thank you very
much, sir.
>> No worries, man. Enjoy the chat. Cheers.